# Methodology

The LULC Change Emission Estimation Plugin assesses carbon emissions associated with Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) changes in a selected area of interest over a specified observation period. The methodology involves acquiring LULC classifications at the start and end of the period, identifying changes, and calculating emissions based on carbon stock differences between initial and final LULC classes. Various LULC change types are included, and associated carbon emissions and sinks/sequestration (in t/ha) are calculated. To each LULC, specific carbon stocks are assigned, e.g., a forest stores more carbon than a meadow or a settlement. Our method thus compares LULC and its associated carbon stock at timestamp 1 with LULC and its associated carbon stock at timestamp two, i.e., we subtract the associated carbon stock of timestamp two from the carbon stock of timestamp one. The carbon stocks encompass soil and vegetation carbon, providing an average measure of carbon stored per hectare. Since the selected carbon stock values are characteristic of areas with temperate climates, e.g., Central and Western Europe, it is recommended to use the plugin only in these areas.

The LULC classification has inherent uncertainties. Thus, it is possible to set a minimum classification confidence, which defines the minimum confidence level required by the user. Any prediction where the model's confidence lies above this threshold will be assumed to be "true"; all classifications exhibiting lower confidence will be classified as "unknown". Further uncertainties arise from emission factor assumptions, particularly concerning the heterogeneity of LULC classes and the temporal dimension of LULC change emissions.